initial draft for EIP-5503 Proposal (#5528)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5528.md

---
eip: 5528

> title: Refundable Token

Author: Updated

> description: Allows users to refund before escrow finalized

Author: Updated

- Buyers can withdraw(or refund) their funded token if the escrow process is failed or is in the middle of the escrow process.

We have suggested this process be possible in an on-chain network with a payable currency-like token(ex: USDT).

## Motivation

Escrow service holds the money until a particular condition has been met for the seller and buyer.  By `ERC5528` standard, smart contract developers can define a wide range of rules to make the deals more successful.

## Specification

There are 3 contracts for the escrow process: `Buyer Contract`, `Seller Contract`, and `Escrow Contract`.
 - Buyer Contract: Buyers will pay to an escrow account to exchange with `Seller Token`.
 - Seller Contract: The seller will pay to the escrow account to exchange with `Buyer Token`.
 - Escrow Contract: Will be created by the seller. The contract source code allows users(seller and buyers) based on constraint rules. Instead of a simple address mapped balance variable in [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens, the user’s balance should be [Seller Token, Buyer Token].

**Every EIP-5528 compliant contract must implement the `ERC5528` interfaces**
```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.20;

> interface ERC5528 {

Reviewer: if it's an extension of ERC20...

```suggestion
interface ERC5528 is ERC20 {
```

Author: fixed

## Specification

There are 3 contracts for the escrow process: `Buyer Contract`, `Seller Contract`, and `Escrow Contract`.
 - Buyer Contract: Buyers will pay to an escrow account to exchange with `Seller Token`.
 - Seller Contract: The seller will pay to the escrow account to exchange with `Buyer Token`.
 - Escrow Contract: Will be created by the seller. The contract source code allows users(seller and buyers) based on constraint rules. Instead of a simple address mapped balance variable in [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens, the user’s balance should be [Seller Token, Buyer Token].

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.20;

interface ERC5528 is ERC20 {

    /// @notice escrow balance of owner
    /// @dev assigned to the zero address is considered invalid, and this
    ///   function throws for queries about the zero address.
    /// @param
    ///   - _owner: An address for whom to query the balance
    /// @return amount of current escrow account balance.
    ///   - in case of an escrow contract, it can be the seller's token or buyer's token for backward compatibility with the ERC20 standard.
    ///   - in case of seller/buyer contract, same as other ERC20 standards.

>     function balanceOf(address account) public view returns (uint256);

Reviewer 2: Required: This conflicts with the EIP-20 function. Please rename and fix.

    /// @notice escrow balance of owner
    /// @dev assigned to the zero address is considered invalid, and this
    ///   function throws for queries about the zero address.
    /// @param
    ///   - _owner: An address for whom to query the balance
    /// @return amount of current escrow account balance. First is buyer token , and seconds is seller token
    function escrowBalanceOf(address account) public view returns (uint256, uint256);

    /// @notice simple query to return a simple description of compliance.
    /// @dev must be implemented in Escrow-Contract and optional for other contracts.

>     function escrowComplianceDescription() external view returns (string);

Reviewer 2: Recommended: Doesn't this introduce a phishing risk?
Recommended: Please make this a URI thing like EIP-721's `tokenURI`

>     /// simple query to return a string based on error code. if the code is zero, the return can be 'success'

Reviewer 2: Required: This returns a string. Not sure how this could be zero. Also, error codes haven't been defined; define them, please!
Recommended: This should absolutely be a parameter of the above URI.

>     /// @dev must be implemented in Escrow-Contract and optional for other contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: Implied

    /// @param
    ///   - to:
    ///     In case of a buyer/seller contract, it must be an escrow contract address.
    ///     In case of an escrow contract, it must be the user address that triggered this transaction.
    ///   - _valuePayed: payable token amount
    /// @return reason code. 0 is a success, otherwise is failure code.
    function escrowFund(address to, uint256 amount) public returns (uint32);

    /// @notice refund from escrow account.
    /// @dev
    ///   - seller/buyer contract should call escrow contract's function before _transfer.
    ///   - escrow contract should update (Seller, Buyer) balance.
    ///   - the seller should not call this function.
    /// @param
    ///   - to:
    ///     In case of a buyer/seller contract, must be an escrow contract address.
    ///     In case of an escrow contract, must be the user address who triggered this transaction.
    ///   - _valuePayed: payable token amount
    /// @return reason code. 0 is a success, otherwise is failure code.
    function escrowRefund(address to, uint256 amount) public returns (uint32);

    /// @notice withdraw token from the escrow account.
    /// @dev

>     ///   - must be implemented in Escrow-Contract and optional for other contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: Implied

    ///   - buyer is only available when escrow is successful, otherwise should call escrowRefund.
    ///   - in case the escrow fails, the seller can refund the seller-token.
    ///   - if the escrow is successful, the seller and buyers can get the exchanged tokens in their wallets.
    /// @return reason code. 0 is success, otherwise is failure code.
    function escrowWithdraw() public returns (uint32);

}

```

## Rationale

> This standard proposes interfaces on top of the [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) standard.
> Each function should include constraint check logic.
> The escrow-contract should implement internal constraint logic such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The escrow contract should implement internal constraint logic, such as but not limited to:

```
Recommended: Formatting
Required: This is still specification. Please move it to that section.

 - Lock period

>  - Maximum(or minimum) number of investors
>  - Maximum(or minimum) number of tokens to fund

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Maximum (or minimum) number of investors
 - Maximum (or minimum) number of tokens to fund
```
Required: grammar

 - Exchange rates of seller/buyer token

>  - KYC verification of users(It might require additional interface)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - KYC verification of users
```
Recommended: This is implied
Required: Fix grammar

>  - etc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: Already implied

> The buyer-contract and seller-contract should not have constraint rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The buyer contract and seller contract should not have constraint rules.
```
Required: Fix grammar
Required: Again, this should be put in the specification
Recommended: Shouldn't this be a MUST?

> Let's discuss the following functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Functions
```
Recommended: A sub-heading is clearer than this sentence in this scenario

> 1. **constructor**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `constructor`
```
Recommended: Subheadings here make this clearer
Recommended: Use code blocks when using code.

> An escrow contract will define success/failure conditions. It means constraint rules might not be changed forever (might be changed after being created for the market exchange rate.), so it guarantees escrow policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An escrow contract will define success and failure conditions, meaning constraint rules may not ever be changed.
```
Recommended: Rephrasing

> 2. **escrowFund**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `escrowFund`
```
Recommended: Subheadings here make this clearer
Recommended: Use code blocks when using code.

This function should run differently for buyers and sellers.

2.1 [Seller]

> - The seller calls this function to be escrow-ready. The seller's token ownership(balance) will be transferred to the escrow contract and the escrow balance should be `(Seller: amount, Buyer: 0)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The seller calls this function to be escrow-ready. The seller's token ownership (balance) will be transferred to the escrow contract and the escrow balance should be `(Seller: amount, Buyer: 0)`.
```
Required: Please define "escrow-ready"
Required: Fix grammar

> - The seller can call this function multiple times depending on implementation, but preferred just one time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The seller can call this function multiple times depending on the implementation, but should only call it once.
```
Recommended: Rephrasing
Required: Fix grammar

2.2 [Buyer]
- During the escrow process, the buyer should be able to call this function to deposit funds into the escrow account.
- The escrow balance should be  `(Seller: amount X exchange rate, Buyer: amount)`. The Buyer: the amount will be used for the refund process.

> - In a successful scenario, the seller's escrow balance should be `(Seller: -= amount X exchange rate, Buyer: += amount)`.

Reviewer 2: Required: This still looks like specification. Please move this entire functions section there.

> 3. **escrowRefund**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `escrowRefund`
```
Recommended: Subheadings here make this clearer
Recommended: Use code blocks when using code.

> This function should be invoked by buyers only.

Reviewer 2: Recommended: Shouldn't this be a MUST?

> The buyer can call this function in the running state only. In the state of failure or success, could not be a success.

Reviewer 2: Required: Not entirely sure what you mean here. Please make this less ambiguous.

> The escrow balances of seller and buyer will be updated reverse way of `escrowFund`

Reviewer 2: Required: Same here. I'm not sure what you're trying to say.

> 4. **escrowWithdraw**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `escrowWithdraw`
```
Recommended: Subheadings here make this clearer
Recommended: Use code blocks when using code.

Buyers and sellers can withdraw tokens from the escrow account to their account.
The following processes are recommended.

> - Buyer can withdraw in escrow-success state only. Ownership of seller tokens can be transferred to the buyer from escrow-contract. In an escrow-failed state, the buyer should call the `escrowRefund` function.

Reviewer 2: Required: What are these states? Please define them.

- When the seller calls this function in the escrow-success state, the remaining seller token will be transferred to the seller, and the earned buyer's token will be also transferred from the escrow-account.
- In the case of escrow-failed, the seller only gets a refund seller token.

## Backwards Compatibility

This EIP is fully backward compatible with the [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) specification.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: Formatting

## Test Cases

1. [Seller/Buyer Token example](../assets/eip-5528/ERC20Mockup.sol).

> 2. [Escrow contract example](../assets/eip-5528/EscrowContractAccount.sol).

Reviewer 2: Required: These two are reference implementations and therefore belong in that section.

3. [Unit test example with truffle](../assets/eip-5528/truffule-test.js).

The above 3 files demonstrate the following conditions for exchanging seller/buyer tokens.
- The exchange rate is one to one.
- If the number of buyers reaches 2, the escrow process will be terminated(success).
- Otherwise(not meet success condition yet), buyers can refund(or withdraw) their funded tokens.

## Security Considerations

> Since the external contract(Escrow Contract) will control seller or buyer rights, flaws within the escrow contract directly lead to the standard’s unexpected behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the escrow contract will control seller and buyer rights, flaws within the escrow contract will directly lead to unexpected behavior and potential loss of funds.
```
Recommended: Rephrase
